>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, JANUARY 18th, HO
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S ANNOUNCEMENT
ABOUT INTELLIGENCE GATHERING I
PLAYING OVERSEAS
>>> AND INDIA'S MISSION TO MARS.
A SOURCE OF NATIONAL PRIDE AND
CONTROVERSY.
>> GO TO MARS.
NOW I HAVE TO GO TO MARS
MY PEOPLE DOWN HERE IN THI
COUNTRY HAVE DRINKING WATER ON
IS SECONDARY
>>> AND MORE ABOUT WHO WAS
BEHIND THE SECURITY BREACHES
BEHIND THE NATION'S RETAIL
CHAINS
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM TISCH STUDIOS IN NEW YORK
HARI SREENIVASAN
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN RUSSI
ARE ONLY THREE WEEKS AWAY AN
THERE'S BEEN ANOTHER VIOLENT
CLASH BETWEEN RUSSIAN SECURITY
FORCES AND MILITANTS
AUTHORITIES SAID THEY KILLED
SEVEN OF THE MILITANTS IN
SHOOT-OUT TODAY.
THEY SAID THOSE KILLED WER
RESPONSIBLE FOR A GRENADE AN
CAR BOMB ATTACK OUTSIDE
RESTAURANT YESTERDAY THA
INJURED AT LEAST 16 PEOPLE
INCLUDING SEVERAL POLICEMEN.
THE INCIDENT OCCURRED IN THE
MOSTLY MUSLIM REGION O
DAGESTAN
AND LATE LAST MONTH, MORE THAN
30 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN
VOLOGRAD
AND THE DEATH COUNT CONTINUES TO
RISE IN THE AFTERMATH OF THA
ATTACK IN KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
YESTERDAY.
POLICE THERE NOW BELIEVE 2
PEOPLE INCLUDING TWO AMERICANS
AND TWO CANADIANS WERE KILLE
AFTER A BOMBER BLEW HIMSELF UP
OUTSIDE THE ENTRANCE TO TH
RESTAURANT FREQUENTED BY
FOREIGNERS
THEN TWO GUNMEN BURST INSIDE
THREE WORKED FOR THE UNITE
NATIONS.
AND THE TALIBAN CLAIME
RESPONSIBILITY
IT SAID THE ATTACK WAS
RETALIATION FOR A U.S. AIR
STRIKE THAT REPORTEDLY KILLE
EIGHT CIVILIANS.
>>> THE MAIN OPPOSITION GROU
VOTED TODAY TO PARTICIPATE I
PEACE TALKS WITH THE ASSAD
REGIME TO TRY TO END THE
THREE-YEAR CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA.
AN ESTIMATED 130,000 PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN KILLED DURING THE CONFLICT.
THE DECISION BY THE SYRIAN
NATIONAL COALITION T
PARTICIPATE IN THE TALKS WAS
REACHED DURING A MEETING NEA
ISTANBUL
THE TALKS ARE SET TO BEGIN
WEDNESDAY IN SWITZERLAND
>>> A TEAM OF INTERNATIONA
INSPECTORS ARRIVED IN IRAN TODAY
AND WILL VISIT TWO URANIUM
ENRICHMENT FACILITIES.
THE VISIT COMES AS THE NUCLEAR
DEAL BETWEEN IRAN AND THE MAJO
WESTERN POWERS INCLUDING THE
UNITED STATES GOES INTO EFFECT
MONDAY
UNDER TERMS OF THE DEAL, IRA
HAS AGREED TO LIMIT URANIU
ENRICHMENT THAT CAN LEAD THE O
THE CREATION OF THE NUCLEA
BOMB
IN EXCHANGE, SOME ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS WILL BE EASED.
>>> AND A NEW CONSTITUTION HAS
BEEN AN PUT INTO EFFECT.
MORSI AND HIS SUPPORTERS FRO
THE OUTLAWED MUSLIM BROTHERHOO
BOYCOTTED THE VOTE WHICH
INTERNATIONAL OBSERVERS SA
OCCURRED IN AN ENVIRONMENT
DISKOURPING DISSENT.
>>> WORD FROM THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS THAT BEFORE RETIREMENT
POPE BENEDICT XVI DEFROCKE
PRIESTS FOR SEXUALLY ABUSING
CHILDREN
THAT REPRESENTS A SHARP INCREASE
OVER PREVIOUS YEARS DUE TO THE
VATICAN'S DECISION TO DOUBLE THE
STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON SE
CRIMES
>>> AROUND THE WORLD, FIRES AR
BURNING OUT OF CONTROL I
SOUTHERN AUSTRALIA WHERE
TEMPERATURES HAVE TOPPED 100
DEGREES FOR THE PAST SEVERAL
DAYS
HIGH WINDS ARE COMPLICATING TH
BRING THE BLAZES UNDER CONTROL
THEY'RE THE WORST THERE IN FIV
YEARS.
>>> HERE IN THE U.S., THAT FIR
BURNING IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
HAS GROWN TO MORE THAN 1,800
ACRES, BUT AUTHORITIES NOW SAY
IT IS AT LEAST 30% CONTAINED
AND THEY'RE HOPING TO MAKE MOR
PROGRESS BECAUSE OF IMPROVIN
WEATHER CONDITIONS
THERE ARE ONLY LIGHT WINDS I
THE AREA TODAY AND THE HUMIDIT
IS EXPECTED TO RISE BY THI
EVENING.
MORE THAN 1,100 FIREFIGHTERS ARE
BATTLING THE BLAZE SAID TO HAV
BEEN STARTED BY AN ILLEGAL
>>> BOEING IS BEING SUED BY MORE
THAN 80 PASSENGERS ABOARD THAT
AIRLINER THAT CRASHED IN SAN
FRANCISCO LAST JULY.
THE LAWSUIT ALLEGES THAT SOM
EQUIPMENT ON THE BOEING 777 WA
IMPROPERLY INSTALLED O
DEFECTIVE.
ACCORDING TO THE SUIT, THA
MEANT THE PLAN'S PILOTS DID NO
GET AMPLE WARNING THAT IT WA
FLYING DO SLOWLY AS IT PREPARE
TO LAND.
THREE PEOPLE WERE KILLED
INCLUDING ONE RUN OVER BY A FIRE
TRUCK AFTER IT CRASH LANDED.
>>> A FEDERAL JUDGE HAS STRUCK
DOWN A 20011 NORTH CAROLINA LA
THAT REQUIRED DOCTORS SHOW AND
DESCRIBE ULTRASOUND IMAGES T
WOMEN BEFORE AN ABORTION
THE RULING WAS MADE PUBLIC
YESTERDAY AFTERNOON.
IN IT U.S. DISTRICT JUDG
KATHERINE EAGLE SAID THE STATE
IS NOT AUTHORIZED TO COMPEL
DOCTOR TO DELIVER AN IDEOLOGICAL
MESSAGE OF CARRYING A PREGNANC
TO TERM.
IT WAS BROUGHT TO SUIT B
PLANNED PARENTHOOD AND THE
CENTER FOR REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS
>>> YOU MIGHT HAVE HEARD ABOUT
CHANGES TO THE INTELLIGENC
GATHERING PROCEDURES AND WE WANT
TO SEE HOW THAT ANNOUNCEMENT I
PLAYING OVERSEAS, PARTICULARLY
AMONG THE ALLIES
AS YOU WILL RECALL SOME OF THE
INCLUDING ANGELA MERKEL WERE
TARGETED BY THE SPY OPERATIONS
WE'RE JOINED FROM WASHINGTON B
JEFF DIRE FROM "THE FINANCIA
TIMES.
I GUESS THE INITIAL REACTION
FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA'S SPEECH,
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING
>> IT SEEMS TO BE A CAUTIOUS
WELCOME.
IT'S A WELCOME BECAUSE THIS IS
THE FIRST TIME THAT TH
PRESIDENT HAS REALLY ADDRESSED
SOME OF THE CONCERNS THAT A LO
OF PEOPLE IN EUROPE AND LATI
AMERICA HAD BY THE WAY THAT TH
NSA WAS COLLECTING DATA ON
ORDINARY CITIZENS.
THIS SLIGHTLY BIZARRE PARALLEL
CONVERSATION GOING ON IN THE
U.S., THE POLITICIANS HAVE BEE
FOCUSED ON WHETHER OR NO
AMERICAN'S RIGHTS HAVE BEE
VIOLATED OR NOT.
THAT'S THEIR CONSTITUTIONA
RESPONSIBILITY
BUT I GAVE THE IMPRESSION THAT
IT WAS ALMOST A FREE-FOR-ALL
THEIR E-MAILS AND THEIR TEXT
MESSAGES WERE JUST FAIR GAME
BY ADDRESSING SOME THE CONCERN
IN THE SPEECH THAT WAS THE FIRST
TIME THE PRESIDENT HAD DON
THAT
BUT IT'S A CAUTIOUS WELCOM
BECAUSE THERE WAS LITTLE DETAI
OR SUBSTANCE IN THERE.
A LOT WILL BE FLESHED OUT IN THE
WEEKS OR MONTHS AHEAD.
AND PEOPLE WILL FOCUS ON THE
ISSUE WILL BE WATCH FORK THE
ACTUAL SPECIFICS OF WHAT THE
WHITE HOUSE OUTLINES FOR THEM.
>> NOW, WHAT ARE THE FEELINGS IN
GERMANY?
I MEAN, THEY SORT OF SEEM TO
TAKE IT MUCH WORSE BECAUSE THEIR
PRIME MINISTER WAS -- OR THEIR
CHANCELLOR WAS BUGGED OR TAPPED.
I MEAN, DID THEY SEE THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE UNITE
STATES AND GERMANY AFFECTE
ADVERSELY BECAUSE OF THIS?
>> SOME OF THAT WAS A COUNTRY IN
EUROPE, THAT IT GOT THE MOST
ATTENTION WHERE THE TEMPERS AR
RAISED THE MOST.
THERE'S THE POLITICAL LEVEL,
THIS IS NOT A BASIS FOR THE U.S.
TO HAVE A MUCH DEEPE
CONVERSATION WITH CHANCELLOR
MERKEL TO DISCUSS WHAT THE NSA
DOES AND HOW IT WILL CHANG
GOING FORWARD.
THIS WILL GIVE THE U.S. A CHANCE
TO START TO TRY AND CALM THING
DOWN AND REPAIR SOME OF TH
DAMAGE OF THE RELATIONSHIP
THEN THAT'S A POPULAR LEVEL AS
WELL
A LOT OF PEOPLE, A LOT OF PUBLIC
OPINION THAT HAVE BEEN OUTRAGE
BY THIS.
I THINK SOME PEOPLE LISTENED T
THE SPEECH WILL BE PLEASED B
IT
BUT THERE'S A WHOLE SECTION OF
THE POPULATION WHO IS BASICALL
OFFENDED BY THE IDEA OF THIS
MASS COLLECTION AND WILL NOT B
PERSUADED BECAUSE THE PRESIDEN
IS PUTTING A FEW MORE SAFEGUARDS
HERE AND THERE
THEY'LL THINK IT'S THE COR
UNDERLYING COLLECTION OF THE
DATA THAT IS THE ISSUE AND THOSE
PEOPLE ARE NOT PERSUADED BY TH
SPEECH
>> WHAT ABOUT PRESIDENT OBAMA'
STANDING, WHAT'S HAPPENED TO HIS
POPULARITY OR FAVORABILITY
RATINGS IN EUROPE?
>> MORE BROADLY, HIS POPULARIT
HAS FALLEN QUITE A BIT
HE GOT A HERO'S WELCOME BEFORE
HE BECAME PRESIDENT IN PLACES OF
EUROPE, BUT BEFORE THE NSA
SCANDAL I WOULD SEEMED THAT TH
THINGS LIKE DRONES ARE VER
CONTROVERSIAL IN PARTS O
EUROPE
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE UNDERLYIN
DIFFICULTIES HE HAS.
BECAUSE ONE OF THE CORE BITS O
THE SPEECH IS ESSENTIALLY
CLAIM BY PRESIDENT OBAMA TO SA
TRUST ME AND I UNDERSTAND THIS
IS AN ISSUE.
I'M GOING TO GET IT UNDE
CONTROL.
THAT SORT OF PITCH ABOUT TRUST
ME MIGHT HAVE WORKED IN EUROPE
THREE OR FOUR YEARS AGO.
BUT HAS MUCH LESS RESONANCE NO
GIVEN HE HAS MUCH LESS
POPULARITY AND INFLUENCE THAN HE
DID.
>> FINALLY ONE OF THE THINGS H
STRESSED YESTERDAY, SO MUCH FO
THE CRITICISM, A LOT OF TH
COUNTRIES USE OUR INTEL TO KEE
THEIR PEOPLE SAFE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THERE'S VERY MUCH A DOUBLE GAM
GOING ON HERE.
THERE'S GENUINE OUTRAGE, BUT
SOME OF THEM ARE PLAYING A
ANGLE TOO.
THEY WANT THE U.S. TO SP
PERSONALLY ON THEM LESS, BUT
GIVE THEM MORE INFORMATION, MORE
HEADS UP ABOUT WHAT THE NSA IS
FINDING OUT.
SO THERE'S ABSOLUTELY -- THEY'RE
PLAYING AN ANGLE HERE, BUT YOU
KNOW IT'S NOT COMPLETE
HYPOCRISY.
THERE'S ANGER ON THESE ISSUES AS
WELL
>> ALL RIGHT
THANKS SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
THIS EVENING, SPACE EXPLORATIO
FROM AN UNEXPECTED PLACE
WHILE SENDING ROCKETS TO OUTER
SPACE MIGHT BRING TO MIND NASA
OR RUSSIA OR CHINA, THE INDIAN
SPACE PROGRAM HAS BEEN BUILDIN
AND LAUNCHING SATELLITES SINCE
THE 1970s.
BUT INDIA'S MOST CURRENT
ENDEAVOR IS MUCH MORE AMBITIOUS.
I REPORTED ON THE INDIAN MISSION
TO MARS.
>> LIFTOFF
>> IN EARLY NOVEMBER, INDI
LAUNCHED A 320 TON ROCKET ON A
MISSION TO MARS.
IF ALL GOES ACCORDING TO PLAN,
THE INDIAN SPACECRAFT WILL
TRAVEL 485 MILLION MILES OVE
MORE THAN TEN MONTHS AND GO INTO
THE ORBIT AROUND MARS IN
SEVENTH.
THE U.S., FORMER SOVIET UNIO
AND THE EUROPEAN SPACE AGENC
ARE THE ONLY ONES WHO HAVE
ACCOMPLISHED THIS FEAT
>> IT IS A CHALLENGE AT BEST
>> DR. RADHAKRISHNAN IS TH
DIRECTOR AT THE INDIAN SPACE
RESEARCH ORGANIZATION.
HE WAS LOOKING ON WHEN THE MAR
CRAFT IN HINDI LAUNCHED.
THE PROBE WILL BE STUDYING THE
ATMOSPHERE OF MARS AND LOOKING
FOR TRACES OF METHANE WHIC
COULD BE A SIGN OF PREVIOU
LIFE
>> NOT A LOT IS KNOWN ABOU
MARS, BUT THERE ARE SEVERA
ISSUES THAT ARE YET TO B
UNDERSTOOD
AND UNDERSTOOD PRECISELY
>> THE MISSION TO MARS IS
SOURCE OF IMMENSE NATIONAL PRIDE
IN INDIA, BUT IT MIGHT SIGNAL
NEW ASIAN SPACE RACE AND IT'
TRIGGERED A DEBATE ABOUT
EXPLORING ANOTHER PLANET WHEN SO
MANY INDIANS STRUGGLE FOR BASI
NECESSITIES.
THOUGH IT HAS BEEN IN EXISTENC
FOR NEARLY 50 YEARS THE VERY
FACT THAT INDIA HAS A SPAC
PROGRAM IS UNKNOWN TO MUCH O
THE WORLD.
BUT SINCE ITS INCEPTION, INDIA
HAS NOT ONLY LAUNCH A MISSION TO
MARS, BUT SENT A PROBE TO TH
MOON AND HAS BUILT AND LAUNCHE
70 SATELLITES TO DO EVERYTHING
FROM MEASURING WATER RESOURCES
TO ENABLING MOBILE
COMMUNICATIONS IN RURAL INDIA.
RADHAKRISHNAN SAYS AT ITS HEAR
THE SPACE PROGRAM IS MEANT T
IMPROVE LIFE FOR INDIA'S
1.2 BILLION PEOPLE
ONE IS TO PREDICT WHERE AND WHEN
STORMS WILL HIT LAND, SO PEOPL
IN THE STORM'S PATH CAN BE TAKEN
TO SAFETY.
IN 1999, WHEN A MASSIVE STOR
HIT INDIA'S EAST COAST, MORE
THAN 10,000 PEOPLE DIED.
BUT A FEW MONTHS AGO WHE
ANOTHER POWERFUL STORM HIT THE
SAME AREA, ONLY 21 PEOPLE DIED
NEARLY A MILLION PEOPLE HAD BEEN
EVACUATED AFTER EARLY WARNIN
DATA FROM INDIAN SATELLITES.
>> THE PROPER USE OF THE
OBSERVATIONS IS TO THE FARMER,
AND AT THE OTHER LEVELS.
>> HOW DOES UNDERSTANDING TH
ATMOSPHERE OF MARS OR WHETHE
THERE WAS METHANE HELP THE
FARMER OR THE FISHERMEN IN
INDIA?
>> IT'S THE -- IT'S NOT GOING TO
HELP HIM IMMEDIATELY
>> BUT HE SAYS TECHNOLOGY FROM
THE MARS MISSION WILL HELP
IMPROVE THE SATELLITES INDIA HAS
YET TO LAUNCH WHICH WILL
DIRECTLY BENEFIT ORDINARY INDIAN
CITIZENS
BUT BEYOND THE TANGIBL
SCIENTIFIC BENEFITS THE FEAT O
SENDING A ROCKET TO MARS HAS
BEEN A HUGE POINT OF PRIDE FOR
INDIA.
AS THE MARS SPACECRAFT LEF
EARTH'S ORBIT, INDIANS TOOK TO
TWITTER TO EXPRESS THEIR
EXCITEMENT
A POINT ECHOED BY DR
RADHAKRISHNAN WHO SAYS THE
MISSION HAS INSPIRED THE NATION.
>> PEOPLE HAVE AWAKENED TO SEE
HOW THE MARS OPERATIONS AR
PROGRESSING.
SO IF YOU CAN PLAN IT SO MAN
YOUNG MINDS, WE NEED TO TAKE U
THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCE IT'S
BIG TRANSFORMATION FOR THE
COUNTRY.
FOR THE FUTURE
>> AND WORKING FOR THE SPACE
AGENCY IS PRESTIGIOUS.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
ENGINEERS HAVE APPLIED FOR JUS
A FEW HUNDRED SLOTS.
THE PRIDE IS ALSO IN PART FO
HOW LITTLE INDIA SPENDS TO
EXPLORE SPACE.
THE MARS MISSION COSTS
4.5 BILLION RUPEES OR JUST OVE
$70 MILLION.
COMPARE THAT TO THE MAVE
MISSION, A SIMILAR NASA PROB
THAT'S EN ROUTE TO MARS.
THAT COST NEARLY 10 TIMES AS
MUCH
THE SAVINGS WERE ACHIEVED IN
PART BECAUSE ENGINEERING LABOR
IS CHEAPER
THE INDIAN PROGRAM RECYCLES AN
ADAPTS COMPONENTS LIKE LAUNC
VEHICLES AND BUILDS FAR FEWE
MODELS, RELYING HEAVILY ON
COMPUTER TESTING
BUT SPENDING ANY MONEY ON SPAC
EXPLORATION HERE I
CONTROVERSIAL.
INDIA IS STILL A DEVELOPIN
COUNTRY WHERE NEARLY A THIRD O
THE POPULATION, ABOUT 40
MILLION PEOPLE, LIVE ON LESS
THAN A $1.25 A DAY
BRINDA ADIGE RUNS GLOBAL
AND CHILDREN HERE IN THE SLUM IN
THE CITY OF BANGALORE.
SHE SAID SHE WAS SAD WHEN SH
FIRST HEARD ABOUT THE MARS
MISSION.
>> AT ONE END OF THE SPECTRUM,
SO MUCH OF MONEY THAT IS BEING
SPENT TO SEND A ROCKET OUT INT
OUTER SPACE, WHEN WE KNOW THAT
HERE ON EARTH IN MY COUNTR
THERE ARE CHILDREN DYING EVERY
DAY BECAUSE THEY HAVE NO FOOD TO
EAT.
SO MANY MORE SPENDING THEIR DAYS
AND NIGHTS WITHOUT ELECTRICITY
NO ROADS, NO EDUCATION
NO PROTECTION FOR WOMEN AND TH
GIRL CHILD ANYWHERE IN THI
COUNTRY.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT IF THEY
DIDN'T SPEND THE MONEY ON TH
SATELLITE THAT THEY WOULD SPEN
THE MONEY ON WOMEN AND GIRL'
ISSUES
>> NO, THEY WOULD NOT.
THE PRIORITIES ARE CERTAINLY NOT
LOOKING AT CHILDREN, WOMEN
HUMAN BEINGS WHO ARE A NEED --
WHO ARE IN NEED OF BASIC
NECESSITIES JUST TO LIVE
>> SO YOU'RE NOT AGAINST THE
SCIENCE.
JUST THE PRIORITIES?
>> YES
>> ADIGE GATHERED A GROUP OF
WOMEN FROM THE SLUMS WHO ECHOE
THE SAME CONCERNS.
I ASKED THE GROUP THAT GIVEN THE
MILLIONS BEING SPENT ON TH
MISSION TO MARS WHAT KIND OF
IMPACT ADDITIONAL MONEY COUL
HAVE IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
THEY DESCRIBED A LITANY OF
ISSUES INCLUDING BAD ROADS, LACK
OF ACCESS TO MEDICAL CARE, THE
HIGH COST OF EDUCATION AND
COMPLAINTS ABOUT SANITATIO
ISSUES LIKE SEWAGE RUNOFF AFTE
THE RAINS.
AND A LACK OF SAFE DRINKIN
WATER.
ONE OF THESE WOMEN WHO WORKS A
A COOK IN A NICER PART OF TOWN
TOOK US TO HER MOTHER-IN-LAW'S
HOUSE AND SHOWED THE
CONTAMINATED WATER THAT COME
OUT OF HER PIPES
>> ALL OF THIS WATER IN TH
HOUSE SMELLS TERRIBLE.
>> IT SMELLED RANCID
THIS IS THE MUNICIPAL WATER TH
FAMILY PAYS FOR FROM THE CITY.
THEY HAVE TO SPEND EXTRA O
TRUCKED IN CLEAN DRINKING WATER.
MONEY THEY DON'T HAVE.
BUT DR. RADHAKRISHNAN DEFEND
THE INDIAN SPACE PROGRAM BUDGET.
IN TOTAL ABOUT $1 BILLION
YEAR
>> ON A GLOBAL LEVEL, INDIA'
PROGRAM IS INCREDIBL
INEXPENSIVE.
ON A LOCAL LEVEL, IT'S STILL
VERY HARD FOR PEOPLE T
COMPREHEND ON THE STREET
SPENDING SO MUCH MONEY GOING T
A DIFFERENT PLANET
>> OF COURSE, YOU TALK ABOUT THE
$1 BILLION THAT IS SPENT
ANNUALLY IF IT'S PROVIDING THE
BENEFITS TO THE PEOPLE
SPACE IS TOUCHING THE LIVES OF
EVERY MAN AND WOMAN IN THI
COUNTRY.
>> RADHAKRISHNAN POINTS OUT THAT
THE ENTIRE INDIAN SPACE PROGRA
ACCOUNTS FOR ONE-THIRD OF 1% O
THE NATION'S BUDGET.
THOSE NUMBERS MAY MAKE IT EASIER
TO JUSTIFY WHAT MAY BE A LARGE
GOAL
COMPETING WITH ANOTHER
SUPERPOWER
LAST MONTH, CHINA BECAME THE
THIRD COUNTRY BEHIND THE U.S
AND THE FORMER SOVIET UNION TO
LAND A ROVER ON THE MOON
AND CHINA HAS SUCCESSFULLY
COMPLETED MANNED SPACE FLIGHTS
A FEAT SEVERAL YEARS AWAY FO
INDIA.
BUT IN GOING TO MARS, INDI
COULD BEST ITS NEIGHBOR.
THE COMPETITION IS A FUEL INDI
IS RELUCTANT TO ADMIT.
IN NOVEMBER 2011, A JOIN
CHINESE RUSSIAN MARS MISSION
FAILED
>> IS THERE POLITICAL PRESSURE
TO KEEP UP WITH THE NEXT DOO
NEIGHBOR, CHINA?
>> EACH COUNTRY HAS THEIR OW
PRIORITIES
THEIR OWN VISION FOR THE SPACE
PROGRAM.
INDIA HAS ITS VISION, CHINA HA
ITS VISION
WE HAVE OUR VISION
>> IT DOESN'T MATTER WHAT CHIN
DOES
>> THEY HAVE THEIR PROGRAM
>> BUT IT WAS RIGHT AFTE
CHINA'S FAILURE THAT THE PRIME
MINISTER HERE SAID, HERE'S OUR
PRIORITY
WE'RE GOING TO MARS.
>> SEE, IN 2013 IF AN OPPORTUN
TIME FOR A MISSION TO MARS
>> WHILE THE INDIAN LAUNCH DAT
DID CAPITALIZE ON WHEN THE
DISTANCE BETWEEN MARS AND TH
EARTH IS SHORTER, TO CRITICS
LIKE ADIGE THIS IS SIMPLY
SPACE RACE
>> YOU HAVE GONE TO MARS, NOW
HAVE TO TWO TO MARS.
YOU REACH THE MOON, I MUST G
AND SEE WHETHER THERE'S WATER ON
THE MOON NOT
WHETHER OR NOT MY PEOPLE HAV
DRINKING WATER ON THIS COUNTRY
THE QUESTION ARISES TO WHAT END?
>> TO ADMINISTRATORS LIKE DR
RADHAKRISHNAN SUCCESS WITH THE
MARS MISSION IS ANOTHER STEP I
HELPING THE WORLD SEE THE RE
PLANET AND INDIA IN A NEW WAY.
>>> FIND OUT WHAT OTHE
COUNTRIES HAVE JOINED TH
INTERNATIONAL SPACE RACE
VISIT NEWS HOUSE.PBS.ORG
>>> ANOTHER STORY TO FOLLOW UP
ON TONIGHT IS THE STATE OF
CREDIT CARD SECURITY OR LACK O
IT
THIS FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MAJOR SECURITY BREACHES AT
TARGET AND NEIMAN MARCUS
NOW A NEW DETAILS ARE EMERGING
ABOUT WHO WAS BEHIND IT AND HO
IT WAS ACCOMPLISHED.
FOR MORE WE ARE JOINED FRO
WASHINGTON BY MIKE RILEY FRO
BLOOMBERG NEWS
IT STARTED TO LAY OUT TH
DETAILS, HOW DID THESE HACKERS
GET ALL OF THESE CREDIT CARD
NUMBERS?
>> SO THEY HAVE GOT A PRETTY
SOPHISTICATED PIECE OF MALWARE
THE TERMINAL THAT SITS IN FRON
OF THE CASH REGISTER THAT WE ALL
SWIPE OUR CARDS ON
SO THE MALWARE TAKES ADVANTAGE
OF A QUIRK WITHIN THAT MACHINE
ALL THE INFORMATION THAT COMES
OFF THAT CARD IS SENT FROM ONE
MEMORY CHIP TO ANOTHER
IT'S NOT ENCRYPTED IN IT AND
IT'S GRABBED RIGHT THIS.
>> WHO'S WRITING THE MALWARE
>> IT LOOKS LIKE EASTERN
EUROPEAN GANGS
SOME OF THE MOST SOPHISTICATED
HACKERS IN THE WORLD ARE EASTERN
EUROPEAN OR RUSSIANS
THEY HAVE A SUPPLY CHAIN THA
YOU CAN BUY PIECES OF MALWARE SO
YOU'RE GOOD ENOUGH AS IN THI
CASE WHAT THEY DID WAS BOUGHT AN
EXISTING PIECE OF MALWARE.
IT'S A GOOD PIECE OF MALWARE T
BEGIN WITH
BUT THEN THEY CUSTOMIZED IT.
THEY MADE IT HARDER TO FIND.
THEN THEY FIGURED OUT THE SCHEME
TO GET INTO TARGET'S COMPUTERS
AND STUCK IT ON THE SYSTEM
THE SAME GANG OR A GROUP O
DIFFERENT HACKERS USING THE SAME
MALWARE ARE TARGETING OTHE
RETAILERS, SO WE HAVEN'T SEE
THE END OF THIS.
>> SOAK KAY.
SO WHAT ARE THEY DOING WITH TH
INFORMATION ONCE THEY HAVE IT?
IS IT SOLD ON THE BLACK MARKET
>> YEAH.
THERE'S AN INCREDIBLY EFFICIEN
SUPPLY STREAM THAT GOES FROM
YOU KNOW, THE -- THE THEFT T
THE ACTUAL SALE.
SO A LOT OF THESE ARE SOLD I
WHAT'S CALLED FORUMS
THESE ARE WEBSITES THAT YOU CA
GET ON AND BUY CARDS IN BULK
BUT IT'S A PRETTY SOPHISTICATE
SYSTEM SO YOU CAN ACTUALLY BUY
CARDS BASED ON THE COUNTRY O
ORIGIN
YOU CAN BUY CARDS BASED ON THE
CREDIT LIMIT YOU WANT.
WILL GUARANTEE THEY HAVEN'T BEEN
CANCELLED WHEN YOU BUY THEM.
IF YOU FIND OUT THEY HAVE BEEN
CANCELLED THEY GIVE YOU YOUR
MONEY BACK
>> WHAT'S THE THREAT T
CONSUMERS?
IF THE BANKS ARE ON THE HOOK FOR
THIS, BESIDES THE INCONVENIENC
OF GETTING A NEW CARD, WHAT CA
GO WRONG
>> YEAH.
I THINK THIS IS -- FROM TH
CONSUMER POINT OF VIEW, IT
REALLY IS A FIRST OF ALL A
INCONVENIENCE ISSUE.
ESPECIALLY WITH TARGET AND
NEIMAN MARCUS.
IT HAPPENED AROUND THE HOLIDAYS.
ONCE OF THE RESPONSES TO THE
HACK BECAUSE IT WAS SO BIG AND
YOU HAD 40 MILLION CREDIT CARD
FROM ONE MERCHANT TAKEN, THE
CARD ISSUERS TRIED TO CONTRO
THEIR LOSSES
WHICH MEANS THEY WERE LIMITING
THE AMOUNT OF MONEY YOU CA
PURCHASE FROM ONE POS SYSTEM
THEY WERE IN SOME CASES -- YOU
CARD WOULD GET -- IF THE
IDENTIFY IT HAS BEEN USE
FRAUDULENTLY THEY'D CANCEL I
AND THEN YOU HAD TO WAIT A
COUPLE OF DAYS TO GET A NE
CARD
NORMALLY THAT'S NOT MUCH OF AN
INCONVENIENCE THOUGH, BUT THAT
COULD HAVE BEEN A BIG DEAL
ESPECIALLY IF YOU WANT TO BUY
TELEVISION SET, YOU DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH LIMIT ON YOUR CARD.
>> ALL RIGHT
MIKE RILEY FROM BLOOMBERG,
THANKS SO MUCH
>> SURE.
>>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, MORE ABOU
A STORY THAT NEWSHOUR FIRS
REPORTED LAST EVENING, ABOUT THE
DEATH OF A JAPANESE WAR VETERA
WHO WAS ORDERED NEVER TO
SURRENDER.
>> FOR NEARLY THREE DECADES HE
REFUSED TO SURRENDER
THE JAPANESE SOLDIER WAS
CONVINCED WORLD WAR II HADN'
ENDED.
BUT IN 1974, IN THE JUNGLE I
THE PHILIPPINES WHERE HE HAD HIT
-- HID FOR ALL THOSE YEARS HIS
WAR WAS FINALLY OVER
HIS AGEING FORMER COMMANDING
OFFICER RESCINDING THE ORDERS HE
WAS GIVEN AS A YOUNG SOLDIER
NEVER TO SURRENDER
IN HIS TATTERED ARMY UNIFORM H
SALUTED THE JAPANESE FLAG AN
HANDING OVER HIS SAMURAI SWORD
HE WAS GREETED BY SOME AS A HERO
ON HIS RETURN TO JAPAN
HE NEVER SURRENDERED
TO HIM, IT WOULD HAVE BROUGH
SHAME.
AND FOR A NATION REFLECTING ON
THE WAR EXPERIENCE, HIS CONDUC
IN THE EYES OF MANY BROUGHT WITH
IT A DEEP SENSE OF PRIDE
>> THE JAPANESE MILITARY BY TH
TIME THEY -- THE TRAINING IS
BRUTAL
THE TRAINING IS VERY
HIERARCHICAL
HE WAS TRAINED AS AN
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER NOT TO DIE.
AND THE LAST ORDER HE WAS GIVE
AS FAR AS I UNDERSTAND WAS, YO
KNOW, YOU WILL GO THERE AND YO
WILL NOT SURRENDER
YOU WILL STAY ALIVE.
AND UNTIL YOU GET THE ORDE
COUNTERMANDING THIS.
>> ONE EMERGED FROM THE JUNGLE
IN 1950 AND THE OTHER TWO DIED
ONE IN 1972 IN CLASHES WIT
LOCAL TROOPS
ON ORDER TO RETURN TO TH
PHILIPPINES HE WAS GRANTED A
PARDON THERE
ALTHOUGH SOME NEVER FORGIVE HI
FOR THE 30 PEOPLE HE KILLED.
HE DIED IN TOKYO, AMED 91.
NEIL CONROY, ITN NEWS.
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
COLLEGE STUDENTS GOING AFTER
COMPUTER HACKERS
>> IS IT EVER THE CASE THAT YO
HAVE A STUDENT DISCOVE
SOMETHING THAT NOBODY KNEW ABOUT
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE SE MOUNTAIN
WESTER
-- SEMESTER?
>> THAT'S ACTUALLY A COURS
REQUIREMENT.
>> I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.